# Predicting Heart Disease

The objective has three main goals: (1) Create a predictive model that could determine the presence or absence of heart disease in a patient based on factors used. Additionally, we wanted to detect if a future patient will be at high risk when given to our model. (2) Which factor(s) are the most significant determinants to predicting heart disease. (3) Using our analysis to better inform people about their risk of heart disease. This also includes preventative measures and general information about heart disease.

### Results 
To sum up our analysis, our team was able to create a multiple regression model that had a high predictive accuracy when predicting if a patient had heart disease or not depending on the variables used. In efforts to choose the simplest and most efficient regression model, we went through a selection process and chose the forward selection prediction model. It had the highest sensitivity (important to have least amount of false negatives), accuracy of 79%, and a high specificity of 0.79. Not only did it have great accuracy metrics, but it used the fewest predictors to get these results. Based on the forward selection model, we can conclude that the most important predictors to determine presence or absence of heart disease in a patient, would be Thallium, Number of vessel fluro, Chest pain type, Slope of ST, Cholesterol, and Sex. This can be greatly important for the medical field to know and implement. For example, doctors could create a pre-screening test from these significant predictors and see if patients fall outside of the normal range and need to undertake more intensive tests for heart disease. Ultimately, the hope with something like a pre-screening test could be that it helps with early detection and knowledge of
risk factors for heart disease. For further research, our team would be interested in looking at these predictors among a bigger dataset to refine our model. Heart disease is a very serious condition; our hope is that analyses like these can help both the medical professionals with treatments and patients affected in a productive way.
